
every job will have a series of directories which will be handled by the
job control system.

jcl      # job control data
job      # job data/input and parameters
session  # session data
working  # store intermediate files here; deleted when the job completes successfully
input    # any files specific to a task go here, particularly large files.
output   # the results go here, specifically files that go back to the origin.
tools    # custom tools will be added here, any non-standard programs (ffmpeg,yt-dlp,wget...)
log      # create log files here also core dumps or any other debug info

special commands will be available to create log files and record events, resource usage.
and process status/state.
the data created will be stored in the log directory.
state and status will also be stored in the job and session directories

job, session and log directories will be synchronized continuously with central storage
jcl, tools and input are read only ( perhaps not enforced, but nothing will be saved )
working is temporary. it will not be maintained if the system crashes.
the job directory will have some data in it that indicates the task to be performed
by the current job and the expected content of the output directory.  jobs should
abend if the expected results parameters are not recognized.  the 'expected'
parameters should be held in multiple formats so that scripts of various levels
of sophistication can read them and function.

where possible use integrated sync tools like glusterfs or nfs.  if not use an
automated mechanism like named pipes to ensure that content is successfully
written to remote storage. [ maybe use a custom file system? ]

create tools for managing logs where the output of a command can be excessive and
may contain control chars to manipulate the user viewable content.

other tools should be available to run commands periodically to evaluate status
in order to maintain progress indicators for running processes.
this includes estimating total run time and calculating task completion.
